Common student errors page (#182)
Submitty/submitty.github.io: _docs/student/student_errors.md

---
category: Student
title: Debugging Submitty Output
---

### Common user errors

Your code is not tested locally first, Submitty should be used as the
final submission server, not as a debugger. Before submitting anything
make sure that your able to run your code locally without error.
In addition the instructor may deciede to use hidden tests which still
reveal the grade. Often these tests corner cases and exactly what those

> could be vary by your program but common cases to consider are positive, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
could vary by your program but common cases to consider are positive, 
```

negative, zero, and floating point values and how your code performs give

> unexpected but valid input.

Reviewer: I am not sure if we really want to be so specific about what the corner cases are, as some programs may be unrelated to number operations. I am afraid that these hints may confuse someone working with some completely different problems (like assignments on string operations).

Often times there may be a missing punctuation or small typo in the output

> If you see that your not getting full cedit carefully read over the student

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see that you are not getting full credit carefully read over the student
```

> and expected output to be sure you didnt miss a red highlighting mark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and expected output to be sure you didn't miss a red highlighting mark
```

![](/images/typo.png)

> Invisible typos are hard to see but with the visualize whitespace button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invisible typos are hard to see but the visualize whitespace button
```

> next to the output that can make it easier to catch pesky spaces and new lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
next to the output can make it easier to catch pesky spaces and new lines
```

One of the most common errors that can occur happen because Submitty runs on

> Ubuntu, a version on Linux, and many students use Windows. If your running into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ubuntu, a Linux distribution, and many students use Windows. If you are running into
```

an issue with new lines. That is probably due to "\r\n" vs "\n". Windows uses

> "\r\n" and if your output uses that for new lines your output wont match Submitty. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"\r\n" and if your output uses that for new lines your output won't match Submitty. 
```

### Kill Signal

> Kill signals exist to prevent a piece of code from running to long and using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kill signals exist to prevent a piece of code from running too long and using
```

> up reasources. Sometimes a kill signal will be sent due to an infinte loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up resources. Sometimes a kill signal will be sent due to an infinite loop
```

in your code. If you do not get an infinte loop during local testing it is

> possible the the inputs being used on submitty are causing your code to loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible the inputs being used on Submitty are causing your code to loop.
```

> Even if you did not experiance this during testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even if you did not experience this during testing.
```
